5.1. Finding The Average Total Touchdowns among Quarterbacks
	The first, second and third query build off one another, with the first query finding what was the average total touchdowns by quarterbacks during the NFL 2024-25 season, which was around 24.6 touchdowns.

5.2. Finding Quarterback(s) Who Scored More Than the Average Total Touchdowns (JOIN/NESTED)
	The second query uses the first query, listing all the NFL quarterbacks who scored above the average total touchdowns by quarterbacks during the 2024-25 season. The query was sorted so the amount of total touchdowns was in descending order. It was discovered that Lamar Jackson, quarterback of the Baltimore Ravens, led the quarterbacks in total touchdowns with 47. There were 15 quarterbacks out of 32 possible quarterbacks alongside Jackson who had more than the average of total touchdowns, indicating almost half the quarterbacks in the database had exceeded the average.

5.3. Finding Playoff Quarterback(s) Who Scored More Than the Average Total Touchdowns (JOIN/NESTED)
	The third query builds upon the second query, now filtering out the quarterbacks that didn’t make the playoffs during the 2024-25 season but had more than the average amount of total touchdowns. As most teams aim for the playoffs as one of the benchmarks for success, as it is the first step toward reaching their goal of winning the Super Bowl, this query allows us to see how individual scoring performances influenced team success. From the 15 quarterbacks in the initial query, there were now 11 quarterbacks who had achieved both, with Lamar Jackson, quarterback of the Baltimore Ravens, still leading the group. This meant that a majority of high-scoring quarterbacks helped lead their teams to the playoffs. One notable quarterback who was second in the previous query but wasn’t present here was Joe Burrow, quarterback of the Cincinnati Bengals, who scored 45 total touchdowns. However, his team didn’t qualify for the playoffs. His absence highlights although most individual performances can help lead their team, there are external factors that influence team success. In this context, the Cincinnati Bengals were widely regarded as having the worst defense in the league. This meant that no matter how well Burrow had performed, it was common for his opponents to outscore the Bengals and lose.

5.4. Comparing Average Total Yards Between Playoff vs Non-Playoff Quarterbacks (JOIN)
	Staying on the topic of playoffs, the fourth query calculates the average total yards of quarterbacks who made the playoffs versus those who didn’t qualify, with this table displaying the results. The results of this query were noteworthy, as there was approximately a 1,000-yard difference between the different groups of quarterbacks, with the playoff-qualifying quarterbacks having the greater amount. The substantial difference in yards highlights how successful quarterbacks that can lead their team to success must be able to generate high yardage to lead their offenses.

5.5. Finding Quarterback(s) Who Were Healthy and Their Playoff Status (JOIN)
	The fifth query lists all the quarterbacks who played above 14 games during the 2024-25 season and whether they made the playoffs or not, with games started being descendent order. This query is important, as many consider availability as the “best ability,” prioritizing a quarterback’s health for team success. Many quarterbacks had exceeded this amount, with 14 of them being able to play all 17 season games. Out of the 20 quarterbacks the query found, 13 of them qualified for the playoffs. With 14 teams and 14 starting quarterbacks allowed in the playoffs, this query showed the importance of health for a quarterback for team success. The one outlier that didn’t make the minimum 14 games started was Russell Wilson, quarterback of the Pittsburgh Steelers. With Wilson only starting 11 games due to benching the original starter, Justin Fields (not in the database due to only starting 6 games, less than Wilson), he was successful in those games, leading his team to a playoff appearance.

5.6. Comparing Average Age between Playoff vs non-Playoff Quarterbacks (JOIN)
	The sixth query calculates the average ages of quarterbacks who made the playoffs versus those who didn’t qualify, with this table displaying the results. The results of this query were interesting, as the averages from both groups were about the same at 28 years old. While an argument can be made that older quarterbacks have more experience in leading their teams compared to younger quarterbacks, the results emphasize that age alone is not a defining attribute in determining quarterbacks that can lead their teams. It highlights that any quarterback is capable of reaching the playoffs, granted they have the right coaching, system, talent, and performance levels in the regular season.

5.7. Finding the Amount of Drafted vs. Undrafted Quarterbacks
	The seventh query is basic, as it counts the number of quarterbacks that were drafted versus those who were undrafted in the database. Drafted starting quarterbacks (or the ones who had the most starts for their respective teams) would have significantly more than undrafted quarterbacks because NFL teams invest higher draft capital and long-term development in their selected players. However, the database contained no undrafted quarterbacks in the 2024-25 season, highlighting the rarity and difficulty for undrafted players to earn and sustain a starting position. This highlights the importance for teams in finding and committing to their franchise quarterbacks through the draft process.

5.8. Finding the Relationship Between Team Wins of a Quarterback and Turnovers (JOIN)
	The eighth query extends findings in the fourth query, showing quarterback team wins and total turnovers of every quarterback in the database. This graph illustrates a weak, negative relationship between the two attributes. This trend is logical in the context of football: teams that turn the ball less hold the ball longer, allowing quarterbacks to be in control to win games. However, there are many quarterbacks who produced few turnovers and struggled to win games, indicating that other factors can influence team success.
5.9. Finding the Relationship Between Total Yards of a Quarterback and Turnovers (JOIN)
	The ninth query builds onto the eight query, finding the total yards and total turnovers of every quarterback in the database. This time, the graph illustrates a weak, positive relationship between the two attributes. Again, these findings aren’t surprising, as quarterbacks who produce high-yardage totals take risks with the ball to lead their team, increasing the chances of turnovers. In contrast, quarterbacks that produce fewer turnovers generally produce fewer total yards, as they are more passive, typically referred to as a “game manager,” quarterbacks that don’t make their team lose but don’t influence their teams to winning. As we found out in the third query, playoff-qualified quarterbacks produce significantly more total yards than non-playoff quarterbacks, meaning more turnovers according to this query. However, the eight query shows that quarterbacks should mitigate turnovers to help their team win more games. This reinforces the idea that quarterbacks should balance between aggressive and passive playmaking to effectively guide their teams.

5.10. Finding Quarterbacks With the Most Total Touchdowns and Their Win Amount (JOIN)
	The 10th query lists the total touchdowns of quarterbacks during the 2024-25 season with their win total and whether they made the playoffs or not, limiting only the top 16 quarterbacks. This query is similar to the third query, but now looking at team win totals rather than filtering by playoffs. However, the results of the query are similar. 13 of the top 16 quarterbacks had produced winning records, with 12 of them qualifying for the playoffs. These findings reinforce the connection between a quarterback’s touchdown performance on team success, emphasizing the importance of scoring in achieving regular season success and playoff qualification.

5.11. Finding Which College Produced the Most Quarterbacks on Winning Teams (JOIN)
	The 11th and 12th queries will be focusing on draft records on each quarterback. This query will find which college had produced the most quarterbacks on winning teams (eg. more wins than losses) during the 2024-25 season. The leader in this statistic was LSU, Oregon and Oklahoma, producing two quarterbacks that started or started the most on their respective teams. This meant that these colleges demonstrated a strong ability in producing quarterbacks that can lead their team to success. These findings highlight specific college programs and their success in shaping NFL quarterback talents, which NFL teams in need can use to find their franchise quarterbacks.

5.12. Finding Which Round(s) Produced the Most Quarterbacks on Winning Teams (JOIN)
	The 12th query finds which round(s) had the most quarterbacks on winning teams. The findings from the query were logical, as 13 quarterbacks selected in the first round of the draft were leading winning teams, the most out of any rounds. With the modern-day draft format consisting of seven rounds, with talented prospects being selected earlier by early picks, the results weren’t surprising. Teams often invest their high-value draft picks in their franchise quarterbacks, as teams view them as the most valuable position. With ample capital invested in these quarterbacks, they are given more money with their rookie contracts, along with more time to develop, as moving on from them too quickly will only cause setbacks. With later-round picks, there will be fewer talented quarterbacks remaining compared to earlier rounds, making them more unlikely to succeed, which may explain their limited presence in the results. 

5.13. Finding the Average Rushing Yards among Quarterbacks
	The 13th and 14th query build off one another, with the 13th query finding what was the average rushing yards by quarterbacks during the 2024-25 season, which was around 296 rushing yards. While quarterbacks are known for throwing the ball, hence their high passing yard total, modern-day NFL offenses are increasingly utilizing quarterbacks in the run game due to the rise in athleticism. As a result, this rushing yardage amount is expected to increase progressively each NFL season.

5.14. Finding Which Quarterback(s) Had Rushed Above the Average for Quarterbacks (JOIN/NESTED)
	The 14th query uses the 13th query, listing all NFL quarterbacks who rushed above the average rushing yards by quarterbacks during the 2024-25 season. The query is sorted by the amount of total rushing yards in descending order. The query found 14 quarterbacks that exceeded the average amount, with eight of them having positive records and also qualified for the playoffs. Lamar Jackson, quarterback of the Baltimore Ravens and the total touchdowns leader, also led this group in rushing yards. With most quarterbacks having rushing capabilities that have led their teams to winning seasons, it underscores the impact of dual-threat quarterbacks who can both pass and rush effectively. The query suggests that rushing yards can be a valuable metric in evaluating a quarterback’s ability to team success.

5.15. Statistics of a Super Bowl Winning Quarterback (JOIN)
	Lastly, the 15th query identifies the quarterback that led their team to the Super Bowl and won, which was Jalen Hurts of the Philadelphia Eagles. This query provides valuable insights into the statistical season of a Super Bowl-winning quarterback. Hurts had one of the most well-rounded statistical profiles in the database, supporting the findings of the previous queries. Hurts played 15 out of 17 possible games, displaying his toughness and availability. In this context, the two games Hurts missed were due to the Eagles clinching a playoff spot early, with the team preserving his health for the playoffs. His total yards were close to the average playoff quarterback despite missing two games while being ranked third in quarterback rushing yards. Additionally, his above-average total touchdowns and average turnovers showed he had a balance between aggressive and passive playmaking. Overall, Hurts exemplified the qualities of a franchise quarterback, reinforcing earlier findings in previous queries with his balanced performance.
